so let's talk a little bit more about
meditation how to choose a meditation
form just one I feel comfortable with
are they're in meditation forms for
specific things like in Qi Gong one form
is good for your heart one for your
liver yeah so okay how do you develop a
meditation regimen fantastic question so
the first thing to remember is that
meditation actually has two words in Sun
Swift more than two but let's start with
two
one is thought or not and one is Dionne
skipped my question what question
complacent the one about complacent yeah
I'm gonna get I'm gonna get to that one
it's just I'm trying to link them
together so that they like it's like
instead of answering them randomly I'm
gonna like make a chain so you guys
build up understanding and then we get
to that one so so how do you choose a
meditation how do you know what you're
comfortable with it's not that I could
skip the question it's a good one it's
just I want to lay some foundation which
will make it easier to answer so one is
good for your your heart one is good for
your lungs things like that fine so the
first thing to understand is there are
two Sun Squidward's for meditation one
is da da da which means focus so that
Erna is a verb so it's something that
you do and the other one is V on which
means a state of mind that you achieve
the first thing that people get confused
about in meditation is they say like oh
like the I'm not good at meditating and
what do they mean by that what they mean
by that is that when I do this
particular practice I do not enter the
state of mind that everyone keeps
talking about I don't feel this inner
peace or a no mind state or things like
that right and I would bet that niz may
not have gotten there today just based
on how he was talking
so it's this is how I kind of describe
it so people say like oh how do I find
the right technique of meditation it's
the one that gets you to the state of
mind so you can sit and you can meditate
we can do alternate nostril breathing
this is a torn-up actually it's a brand
I am but it's a dire enough there's
something that I do so while I'm doing
this my thoughts can be all over the
place but the hope is that when I do
this right that the focus of my mind on
my breathing will stop any extraneous
thoughts and then eventually I'll enter
the state of mind where I basically have
no thoughts that's the state of Beyond
and that takes practice but essentially
the kind of meditation technique that
you should choose is one that gets you
to be on as quickly as possible so if
you're doing this and your mind is
wandering all over the place that's not
the right technique for you practice
does make perfect but in my experience
if you try different buckets of
techniques there are some things that
work for someone's cognitive fingerprint
better than others so we each have a
brain and our brain has different kinds
of cortices and some people can focus
the attention of their mind through a
particular cortex so either through the
visual cortex somatosensory cortex audio
cortex and so like they're different and
when we think about a focused mind
there's some stuff that's going on on
the front in the frontal lobes but that
different people have like so that we
got to think about this like we each
have a unique face we have unique hands
we have unique fingerprints but no one
talks about the uniqueness of our mind
like no one [ __ ] talks about this
blows my mind everyone's mind is
different and so everyone's mind has a
different regimen of meditation
techniques that is going to be ideally
suited for them there are 112 meditation
techniques out of which one will work
relatively easily for in theory every
human who has ever been born is alive
now or will be born that this covers the
whole spectrum of different people's
cognitive fingerprints
and so you should do different
techniques based on what that is for
someone who's ADHD
I recommend this sound meditation and
this is the first one that I teach
inside meditation we can't really do it
here because it's not loud enough but
you go to you go to any kind of loud
place where there like people and things
going around so like a train station or
a cafeteria you close your eyes and you
try to listen to as many sounds as you
can as rapidly as you can don't engage
with the sounds but just have your mind
move from thing to thing to thing to
thing to thing because the mind of an
ADHD person is moving very fast and so
the way that you get a mind to calm down
is the same way that you get a baby to
sit still like you guys know how you get
a toddler to like sit the [ __ ] down you
have them run around a whole lot if you
try to force them into one place they're
gonna wriggle and things like that so
you just haven't like you exhaust them
you take them to a playground then the
child will calm down and the ADHD mind
is like that and so when like I tear my
hair out when I have people who have
ADHD and we were like trying all this
mindfulness stuff they're trying to like
brute force like have their mind set
there no no no man like exhaustion move
fast move from stimulus to stimulus to
stimulus to stimulus I hear someone
talking cell phone ringing someone
dropped a fort someone dropped something
over here someone opened a box there's
someone walking by another cellphone
laughter crying cell phone clinking
that's the way you do it and you push
your mind as fast as it can go as many
stimuli as you can cover and eventually
your mind will slow down and it will
calm down right
that's the Tecna
for people with ADHD hard to do here and
so someone says yeah I don't think that
would work for you fine there are
bunches of other techniques right so
maybe try an investigative technique so
these are some of my favorites so we did
this a couple weeks ago with or like one
week ago with the court so take a moment
yet in the middle of Ironforge is a
great place to do this technique now you
guys understand so take a moment to
notice your breath in the temperature of
your breath what do you think so
what do you notice about the temperature
of your breath
[Music]
so where do you feel the temperature
so now what I want you to do is follow
the coldness right see where that
coldness goes do you only feel it in
your nose where in your nose the tip of
your nose the middle of your nose the
top of your nose your sinuses your
throat right so now like think about
this so now what I want you guys to do
so this is actually trickery I'm sorry
I've tricked you now I want you to pay
attention every time you breathe what
happens in your mind
as you focus on the temperature of the
breath your thoughts cease for a moment
and then you analyze it and then
thoughts return so as you close your
eyes for a moment no thoughts and then
after the breath thoughts thoughts no
thoughts thoughts no thoughts so you're
training yourself to enter the no mind
state and now what happens is you start
to breathe slowly and then as you start
to believe slowly the space of time that
you have no thoughts increases
right and then some of you dumbasses are
getting upset with chat like let chat do
what it wants to it's not going to work
for everyone the goal here is not to get
chat in line just think about that for a
second for those of you who are raging
its chat like what are you trying to do
there what are you hoping to accomplish
what do you think happens when you yell
at chat does chat listen are they going
to be shamed into listening to you know
so notice that within yourself that
you're like holy [ __ ] this stuff is
working and chat why don't you like so
forget about them that's what we talked
about for the last hour and a half
don't worry about other people now
practice it notice your rage at chat and
then notice how is you rage at chat
you feel worse go back to the [ __ ]
breath let that thought go let the
judgment go let the frustration go just
feel the breath where does it go
you
right there we go that's your practice
so now you express gratitude towards
chat because chat has now helped you
understand how your mind gets off track
how your mind experiences judgment how
your mind feels disturbed how you can be
in a place of peace from meditating and
then rage a chat and then come back
right we can't blame chat for what it is
do you blame a rain cloud for raining on
your parade like you can but chat is
chat we can't you know like let's not
blame them for being who they are it's
not their fault that they're you know
confused in Peppe hands and more Peppe
hands and kacct
I don't even know what that what
attacked w-why is there a w lull w I
don't even there like some kind of
horrible bot that doesn't know what it's
saying right can't blame them for that
accept them for they who they are okay
so I've been practicing the meditation
techniques you've showed they've been
very therapeutic was wondering where to
find a good source for more of these
practices I don't think there is a
source right so the meditation
techniques like I studied for seven
years to become a monk and I learned a
lot of different techniques from a lot
of different masters and it's kind of an
amalgamation of like lots of different
texts and books so unfortunately I don't
have a good source but I'm gonna make
one so I'm gonna I'm gonna cover like
hopefully one day I'll cover all 112 and
then you'll have all of them okay so now
we're gonna actually go back to
complacent verses content I think was
the question right so now we so I okay
so if if we were like paying attention
to mrs. interview earlier he was talking
about being determined right so
determination comes from ambition and
ambition is like kind of a desire and
like a desire is sort of like a goal so
generally speaking we think about
ourselves as being motivated by goals by
the accomplishment of a particular thing
and complacency happens when you
accomplish that goal and you kind of
don't have another goal complacency
exists with a goal and achievement
oriented mindset like if you just think
about the word to be complacent is to
like not strive for something right like
that's what the word means so if you're
calm
then you're like you're not striving for
something and so it implies that in
order to achieve something you have to
strive and to strive is to try to
achieve a goal and to achieve a goal as
a particular outcome orientation and so
like if you're content
does that mean that you become
complacent actually no because you start
operating on a completely different axis
so you start operating on the axis of
action not goal so when I show up on
stream I'm not complete like am i
complacent no am i content like yeah I'm
not not Kentucky I'm not discontent like
I show up and I enjoy myself and I have
a good time and I'm content with where I
am and I'm not trying to achieve
anything particular right I mean like I
am in the sense that there's someone in
front of me and I try to talk to them
and I try to answer questions so I'm
trying to like do goal like goals in a
very microscopic sense but I'm not like
trying to achieve anything and so I I
think the the way the simple answer is
service so complacency is about ambition
and goals and service is not I mean
service can have goals too but like it's
kind of like a different mindset right
like I'm here to help and I'm gonna help
the best way that I can and I could be
content with that because I'm not
expecting to change anything I'm just
here to help and offer what I am I show
up and I say this is what I am how can I
help and for some people it's gonna help
and for some people that's fine that's
contentment but I'm still motivated to
do it but I'm just motivated out of
service the other word for service is
the Dharma right so I do by Dharma so
people think that personal ambition is
what leads to motivation and once you
achieve that ambition and then you are
complacent but you can operate from a
place of Dharma which is not about
personal ambition it can look a lot like
personal ambition but it's to serve so I
show up and I say like how can I help
and then I try my best to like actually
do a good job and to grow but that
doesn't lead to complacency but it also
keeps me content because I'm trying to
just do the best job that I can
so Dharma is the Sun script word for
duty or responsibility and I think
rather than thinking about morality in
terms of right and wrong I try to live
my life according to the anima to my
duty or my responsibility and Dharma is
kind of like it's it's complicated it's
a very complicated thing
to figure out your Dharma the other
thing about Dharma that I think is
really important is that Dharma allows
you to tolerate the hard things in life
so most of the time we tend to gravitate
away from pain and towards pleasure
right like I don't want to apply for
this job because they could reject me I
don't want to ask this girl out because
she may say no so the avoidance of pain
keeps us from doing a lot of things
that's just how human beings work but
Dharma sort of says like I don't [ __ ]
care how you feel you have to do it
because it's important right so like if
I'm trying to impress a girl like let's
say I'm in medical school and like I'm
attracted to someone and I want her to
think highly of me and so that's gonna
shape all my behaviors in all kinds of
weird ways like I'm gonna be like dress
a certain way and act a certain way you
know if I'm working in the emergency
room my favorite example of late and
someone comes in with like with a
gunshot wound and I have to like get in
there and do chest compressions and then
after I do chest compressions I'm gonna
like walk back to the call room and
she's gonna see me and I'm gonna be like
disheveled and covered in vomit and
blood and I'm gonna look [ __ ] awful
and smell awful but I don't [ __ ] care
about that because like I had to do the
chest compressions like everything all
of my personal [ __ ] goes away when
I'm doing my enema like it just doesn't
matter you just do the thing that you
need to do so anonymize is just helps
you like helps you do the tough thing
because it's more important than you so
you guys have to also understand it's
like if we think about like why you
avoid things in your life due to pain
it's paying for you that's what causes
you to avoid right it's not paying for
other people it's like paying for
yourself that causes you to avoid and
not do the things that you need to do in
fact most of the people that I work with
most of the gamers that I work with they
will do ten times as much for another
human being as they're willing to do for
themselves if someone says hey man like
I need to clean out my place and move
out can you give me a hand they're like
absolutely dude I'm there can you clean
your own [ __ ] room no [ __ ] way
but you'll help someone else clean that
room because you're a good person it's
[ __ ] weird right so why are you able
to do that why is it so easy for you to
clean someone's room if they ask for
your help but it's so hard to clean your
own room it's because that's part of
your dogma you have a tournament to that
and what gamers don't realize is that
they like don't have they don't have a
Dharma to themselves you owe this to
yourself you owe yourself a life where
you get better you owe yourself a life
of peace and contentment and happiness
and success you owe that to yourself but
you're not willing to do it for yourself
because you don't realize that you owe
yourself that you blame yourself for not
having it but that's not what the
dynamic person says the dynamic person
doesn't say why the [ __ ] haven't you
cleaned your room your dynamic person
says if you need help I'm there to help
you but as a gamer do you help yourself
no you [ __ ] blame yourself like [ __ ]
you you suck at life
why can't you beat Arabic to yourself
why can't you be like hey man it looks
like you need some help you feel bad
about yourself like let me help you out
let's go to the grocery store why don't
we like eat something healthy so we feel
better about ourselves why don't we do
some exercise like why don't we like
clean up our room a little bit like you
owe this to yourself man come on dude
like be your own best friend you don't
know how to do that that's because you
don't realize you have a Dharma to
yourself you have learn about other
people but you don't understand your
Thommo to yourself
so Dharma is an incredible source of
strength
it's an incredible source of like power
and tolerance for the negative
okay
all right so
okay so now we get to the next question
is the harm of the same as Dow or tau or
the way in doubt a chain is it the
current life the way of things of nature
of universal patterned currents is it
connected to the flow State is it
indicated by our emotions help us
understand the Irma better okay so Parma
is the same as doubt so I think that's
the same concept at its root it has
slightly different manifestations
I do think I you know it's been a long
time since I've studied the daodejing so
I'm not quite sure exactly what the
current means but generally I think that
all that [ __ ] is the same like it's
there all talking about the same stuff
so I think like in the Sun script system
there's the Ottoman there's karma and I
think Dao kind of encapsulates both of
those because there's a part that's duty
and then there's a part that's like kind
of circumstance or environment and and
my sense of Dao is that like it's kind
of like a combination sort of my meets
karma so Carter bar is like
circumstances it's the principle of
cause and effect so it's like current so
you haven't thought about but then there
are influences in your life that you
don't control which is your karma so I
think that's how those are related
so when you say of nature of universal
pattern currents like that sounds like
oprich to me I don't know what that
means like I don't I'm not saying that
it's not a real thing it's just like
sometimes people toss around these like
grandiose terms like universal patterns
like I don't know what is that I don't
know what that means
so I use the Sun squits terminology
because I think it's a little bit more
precise I mean it could be related to
that but I just don't I'm not familiar
with that terminology so I don't know is
it connected to the flow State no so
flow state is a state of mind karma is
not a state of mind Dharma is about like
duty or responsibility or a guide for
action Hana is a compass a flow state is
a state of being and while Dharma
generally speaking allows you to
facilitate getting into a state of mind
they're like apples and oranges flow
state is a state of consciousness it's
like sleep wakefulness dreaming flow
State right that's the category Dharma
is not in that category
Dharma is about duty or responsibility
it's sort of like a concept flow say to
some
that happens in your brain and karma is
not something that happens in your brain
is it indicated by our emotions no
Dharma Dharma is what allows you to
tolerate negative emotions but emotions
are also a product of the mind or the
body they're not like Dharma sort of an
abstract concept so these are good
questions because I don't think we think
about like what stuff is in my mind and
what stuff is my life and what stuff is
outside of my mind what are my emotions
what are my thoughts all of this stuff
has to be understood like you have to
understand like how this person that you
are works you have thoughts you have
emotions you have flow States you have
states of consciousness you have states
of beings you have goals what's the
relationship between all of this stuff
how can we understand how emotions
relate to motivation how can we
understand how states of mind relate to
motivation how can we understand how the
anima relates to motivation how can we
understand how karma relates to
motivation that's the goal of this
stream is for us to unpack all of these
different things because we don't get
taught this stuff it blows my [ __ ]
mind we get taught algebra but we don't
get taught what the relationship between
our mission and life a calling in life
our emotions and our mindset we don't
get taught that but I think that's
really like basic stuff that everyone
needs to understand what is the
relationship between a calling and your
emotions yeah because we don't get
taught this stuff infuriates me no
wonder no one knows what the [ __ ]
they're supposed to do in life like we
don't get taught how we work like we get
taught you can learn macroeconomics so
easily
you cannot go outside and learn a
definitive way in which your emotions
affect your Dharma in which your
emotions affect your behavior you you
can't they don't teach you that
interesting so they did social and
emotional skills training for students
that accounted for they took a study of
15,000 students half of them got we're
given a class called social emotional
skills training social emotional skills
training is worth 1.1 GPA points
more than a whole letter grade they
looked at the GPAs of these students who
are taught how like social and emotional
skills and they get one letter grade
higher than the people who are not
taught crazy-crazy